In this lesson, we have one more independent work. It is necessary to make the sounds of pick-ups.
There is a separate sound for ammo, separate for health. And also need to program the logic of the impact sound.
You can group them at your own discretion. There are sounds of
default impacts, sounds of hitting the human body, sounds of hitting metal, and so on.
Let me remind you that we have an ImpactData structure and also a WeaponFXComponent.
The task is generally simple. The only thing: don't forget about sound classes and attenuation settings.
Let's get down to execution. Create an additional directory in the folder with sounds, call it pickups.
Create the first SoundQue for health, call it SQue_HealthPickupTaken.
And the second SoundQue for ammo, call it SQue_AmmoPickupTaken.
We open assets.
Create an additional directory called Impacts.
Create SoundQue for projectile impact.
The next SoundQue is the default impact for the rifle.
Next, we create a SoundQue for the ground impact.
And a separate SoundQue to play when it enters the character's body.
For headshots, we will use the same Sound Que, call it SQ_RifleFleshImpact. We open all the assets.
Move to the ExternalContent / Sounds directory.
Into the pickups directory. Let's add the first sound for the ammo pickup.
Let's test it.
Let's immediately create sound classes for our new SoundQue.
Let's call the new sound class SC_Pickup.
And so does SC_Impact.
For ammo pickup, we set the sound pickup class.
And also find attenuation settings called pickups.
Moving on. Add the sound of taking health.
We set the sound class and attenuation settings.
The next SoundQue is projectile impact. Find the Impacts directory.
Soun waves for projectile are called LauncherImpactClose.
There are five of them. Select everything. We drop it into the appropriate SoundCue.
We connect through the random node. Checking.
For this asset, set the sound impact class.
Attenuation settings is called Explosion.
Moving on to the impacts of the rifle. Find assets that have default in their names. Select everything. Transferring to SoundCue.
We connect using random nodes.
Change the Sound class to impact.
Attenuation settings are called BulletImpacts. It sounds like this.
Next, let's move on to the impacts, which are played when they hit the character's body.
Select all impacts with flеsh text in the title. We insert it into SoundQue, we also connect it via random.
Set the impact class.
Attenuation settings set BulletImpacts. Let's listen.
And the last SoundQue is ground impact. Let's use
metal sounds for this impact. They contain the text mtl in their titles. We transfer them to the blueprint.
And we do the procedure similar to other SoundCue.
Click play.
All sound effects are customized. Let's move on to the code.
Let's start with the pickup sound. The logic for playing the sound will be in the BasePickup class.
Add a property that will store a pointer to the sound que.
We call it PickupTakenSound.
Add forward declaration.
And go to the .cpp file.
We need to add the GameplayStatics and SoundQue headers.
And remember, we have a function called PickupWasTaken. It is called the moment the character picks up the pickup.
In it we will play the sound. We call the PlaySoundAtLocation function.
Passing a pointer to the world.
We pass a pointer to our SoundQue
and the current position of the actor.
With pickups sorted out. Go to the header file STUCoreTypes.h
Find our VFX types. We make a forward declaration for SoundQue.
And add a new property to the ImpactData structure - this will be a pointer to SoundQue.
Let's just call it Sound.
Next, we move to the WeaponFXComponent.
We have GameplayStatics. You need to connect SoundQue.
And at the bottom of the PlayImpactFX function, add a sound comment
and call the PlaySoundAtLocation function
Pointer to the world.
The Sound field of the ImpactData structure.
We will play the sound at the point of impact. To do this, we pass the ImpactPoint field of the Hit structure.
All the code is ready. Let's compile.
It remains to install all the sounds. Let's start with projectile. For it, we specify only the default impact in the FX component.
Next, we move on to the rifle. We indicate the default hit sound.
And for each physical material, we indicate the corresponding sounds.
Next up is the ammo pickup.
And the last asset is the health pickup.
All assets are configured. Let's also add our dev damage actor to the scene
so that we can reduce our lives and take a health pickup.
And in property I will set damage to one.
We start the game.
So, because of the shooting, the sounds of pickups will be hard to hear, so let's
set the sound of the weapon class in the settings to 0.
Start the game.
All sounds are in place.